UML quiz
=

Question 1
-

> Consider translating this UML diagram to relations. Which of the following relations would not be generated by any of the recommended translation schemes discussed in the video?

**Publication(ISBN, pub-title, year, volume, edition):**
Could have this. Third translation: mega-relation.

**Book(edition):**
Not a possible translation of a subclass. Need (1) a foreign key, (2) to have all the attributes of subclass, or (3) megaclass.

**Book(ISBN, edition):**
Could have this. This is the first translation, keeping the attributes for the subclass and the foreign key for the superclass.

**Publication(ISBN, pub-title, year, name, start-date, end-date):**
A publication can only have one editor. So we could just put the editor foreign key and attributes of the association on the publication class.


Question 2
-

> Based on this UML diagram, which of the following statements about Authors is correct?

**An author can write a book or contribute an article, but not both:**
False. Nothing we have learned about UML allows for two associations to effect each other.

**A book may have no authors:**
True. A book can have 0-to-many authors.

**Every book has up to one author:**
False. Authors are not required to have either articles or books.

**Every author has contributed at least one article and at least one book:**
False. Authors are not required to have either articles or books.


Question 3
-

> Based on this UML diagram, which of the following relations best represents articles?

**Article(title, pages, keywords, ISBN):**
This is probably the best. Every collection must has an ISBN and volume, but the ISBN is the key. If we have that, we don't need to repeat the volume in the article relation.

**Article(title, pages, keywords, ISBN, volume):**
This would work, but since multiple articles can be associated with the same collection, we would repeat the ISBN and volume attributes over and over. Just need the ISBN.

**Article(title, pages, keywords, volume, ISBN, pub-title, year):**
This would work if the Collection subclass has all the attributes of its superclass, a valid translation. But we'd end up repeating the publication information for all the articles in the publication.

**Article(title, pages, keywords, volume):**
Don't think this would work. volume is just an attribute of a subclass. volume could be "4" for all we know. That's not a unique identifier.


Question 4
-

> Consider translating this UML diagram to relations. In the relation Edits generated from the Edits association, which of the following set of underlined attributes is a minimal key?

**Edits(*name*, *ISBN*, *start-date*, *end-date*)**
start-date and end-date do not matter since a publication can have at most one Editor.

**Edits(name, *ISBN*, start-date, end-date)**
This works. Since a publication can have at most one Editor, we only need the publication key, which is ISBN. Adding Name would give no more information, since again, there can only be one editor. Imagine the reverse. name cannot be the key, because the same editor can edit two books. Now we could have an editor listed without a publication, but we can have null primary keys.

**Edits(name, *ISBN*, *start-date*, *end-date*)**
start-date and end-date do not matter since a publication can have at most one Editor.

**Edits(*name*, ISBN, *start-date*, *end-date*)**
start-date and end-date do not matter since a publication can have at most one Editor.


Question 5
-

> Based on this UML diagram, which of the following statements about the city and state classes is correct?

**No two cities can have the same mayor.**
No guarantee of this. mayor is not even a primary key.

**Each state has at least one city.**
No, a state can have 0-to-many cities.

**No person can be the mayor of cities in two different states.**
Again, we don't know anything about the mayor. There could be the same mayor for every city in every state.

**Each city has at most one mayor.**
Yes. There is only one mayor attribute. If we wanted more than one mayor, we would need a mayor class with an association between mayor and city.


Question 6
-

> Based on this UML diagram, which of the following statements about the Continent and Country classes is correct?

**No two countries can have the same name:**
True. Name is a primary key.

**A country can be in two different continents:**
False. The component says the country can be in 0-to-many continents.

**Each country must belong to a continent:**
False. The open-square notation indicates 0-to-many.

**A country can speak two languages:**
False. There is only one attribute for language. We would need a separate Language class with an assocation to denote multiple languages for the same country.


Question 7
-

>This UML diagram puts some constraints on the cardinalities of classes A, B, and C. Which of the following combinations of cardinalities is permitted? (Note: The cardinality of a class C, denoted |C|, indicates the number of objects in the class.)

**|A| = 0; |B| = 20; |C| = 10:**
Incorrect. For every A there must be a B. Since there are no A's, there can be any number of B's. But for every there must be a C. Since there are 20 B's, there must be at least 20 C's.

**|A| = 0; |B| = 0; |C| = 1:**
Correct. There can be no A's or B's. And C does not have to have an association with B.

**|A| = 0; |B| = 1; |C| = 0:**
Incorrect. If there is a B, there must be a C.

**|A| = 10; |B| = 10; |C| = 0:**
Incorrect. If there is a B, there must be a C.


Question 8
-

> Suppose there is a UML superclass Movies with subclasses. Consider the following possible pairs of subclasses:
>
>    1. {B,NB}: B = movies in which Kevin Bacon appears; NB = movies in which Kevin Bacon does not appear
>    2. {B,R}: B = movies in which Kevin Bacon appears; R = movies in which Julia Roberts appears
>    3. {B,K}: B = movies in which Kevin Bacon appears; K = movies in which Val Kilmer appears
>    4. {L,S}: L = movies more than 100 minutes long; S = movies less than 105 minutes long
>
> Consider whether each pair of subclasses is complete or incomplete (partial), and whether the pair is overlapping or disjoint (exclusive). (Depending on your knowledge, you may have to do some web searches on movies to get the right classification.) Which of the following statements is correct?

**{B, NB} is incomplete and disjoint:**
False. Kevin Bacon is either in a movie or not. The two subclasses should be complete, i.e. every object will participate in one of these subclasses.

**{B, R} is complete and overlapping:**
False. Kevin Bacon and Julia Roberts have starred in the same movie, but not every object in movies will participate in one of the subclasses.

**{B, K} is incomplete and disjoint:**
True. First, some movies contain neither actor. The pair of subclasses is incomplete. And some movies contain Kevin Bacon but not Val Kilmer. The sublcasses are disjoint.

**{L, S} is complete and disjoint:**
False. The subclasses are complete, since every movie is either over 100 minutes or less than 105 minutes, but they are also overlapping. A movie that is 102 minutes will be in both subclasses.

