Q1
=

Consider a table T(A) containing a set of positive integers with no duplicates, and the following recursive SQL query. Note that this query includes nonlinear recursion, which technically is not permitted in the strict SQL standard.

```sql
With Recursive Mystery(X,Y) As
    (Select A As X, A As Y From T
    Union
    Select m1.X, m2.Y
    From Mystery m1, Mystery m2
    Where m2.X = m1.Y + 1)
Select Max(Y-X) + 1 From Mystery
```

While the definition looks complicated, the query in fact computes a property of T that can be stated very succinctly. First try to determine what Mystery is computing from T. Then choose which of the following is a correct statement about the final query result.

Explanation
-

The query returns the longest sequence of consecutive integers in table `T`. When the recursion stops, the table `Mystery` has a tuple `(x,y)` that represents the minimum and maximum numbers of the longest sequence of consecutive integers. `MAX(Y-Z)+1` computes the difference between the two numbers and adds `+1` because fenceposts. How does the recursion work? If the second element of one tuple precedes the first element of another tuple, a new tuple is added that represents that spread. And since `Mystery` is initialized with tuples with identical numbers, these spreads only represent ranges of consecutive integers in `T`.

For example, if `(4,4)` and `(5,6)` already exist in `Mystery`, then `(4,6)` will be added, representing the length of the sequence `4,5,6`. We are guaranteed to already have tuples `(5,5)` and `(4,5)` because of how `Mystery` was initialized, and how the recursion works.

Answer choices and analysis
-

**1. If T = {1, 5, 9, 10, 12, 15} then the query returns 15.**
    False. The longest series of consecutive integers is 9,10 = 2.

**2. If T = {2, 4, 6, 8, 10} then the query returns 9.**
    False. No new tuples are inserted, and the longest series is 1.

**3. If T = { 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12} then the query returns 7.**
    False. The longest series of consecutive integers is 2,3,4,5 = 4.

**4. If T = {1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12} then the query returns 4.**
    True. The longest series of consecutive integers is 4,5,6,7 = 4.

